# NewsHeadlinePolitics
Political Spectrum of News Headlines<br />
Authors: Max Gilli, William Walker, Sunny Zhou<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The goal of this project is to write a neural network that can predict the political preferences of the author based on their headline. In the current political climate, it is confusing where news articles stand on issues and what political aisle they are on. The finished project should allow individuals to input a headline and receive a rating from -2 to +2 ( -2 being far left, 0 being center, and +2 being far right).<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To collect the headlines data we will be using, archives from news websites themselves (such as “CNN Site Map”). Some sites that will be used to gather training data will include,  Fox News, Wall Street Journal, CNN, BBC, and The New York Times. For those of the sites without a list of headlines, we will need to use corpora, such as English-Corpora.org, or web scrape from sites such as Google News or Yahoo News.<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To convert texts into something our models/algorithims can work with, we will have to vectorize the texts based on a dictionary. Instead of using the entire dictionary for the english language, it would be more cost effective to create the dictionary based on what the words occur in headlines, which can be assumed to be similar to the training data. Chosen headlines will be vectorized by whether they contain certain dictionary words, and placed as rows of a matrix X. Meanwhile, for each row i of X there will be a yi in a matrix Y to classify the headline. <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For each layer of the neural network, we will be implementing it as a learning algorithm. The loss function that could be used is defined on slide 3 of lecture 11/2-11/7. To measure the accuracy of the prediction, we will be testing it with another dataset that is classified that wasn’t used in the training. Any new words will be discarded. We will be using the “distance” between the output and our manual transcription to measure this. Future implications of the model include being used to explore how certain words/phrases vary between political views and how political veiw points can shift over time.<br />
